this should be required viewing for
business owners I'm going to explain a
growth concept that every business needs
and four tactics to get it come on
follow
me every business begins with effort and
money from the founder or investors that
begin the business from there you begin
to get customers right so you advertise
you sell and people come in the door and
they buy your stuff now once customers
come in they get some sort of result now
after they get the result
you then have some sort of
reviews or Word of
Mouth that that those results will
generate and then that can then in turn
get you more customers and so this
initial effort of money goes into the
system that gets you customers those
customers get results those results
Drive reviews in Word of Mouth which
then get you more customers the problem
is most businesses don't have a good
process here or here and and so all they
have to do their wheels look like this
effort and money customers result more
effort in money customers result and
they end up dumping a lot of effort out
this way and so this creates a linear
system where all you do is you have to
put more in and you get more out this
growth concept is to create a
self-reinforcing system where every
action or component builds momentum and
drives the next creating sustainable
growth over time without the continuous
input of more effort and more money on
the side of the founders Andor
investors so tactic number one after
you've delivered service for whatever it
is so whether you're a plumber and you
go to a house or you're a waitress and
you just served a customer after you've
delivered the value that you deliver
with your core product or service you
then offer a free gift now that gift is
going to be relative to the amount of
money that someone spent if someone
spends 20 bucks maybe you just give them
a bunch of mints if someone spent maybe
$100 maybe you give them a $5 dessert if
someone spends $1,000 maybe you give
them a $50 gift like this lovely money
blanket which is definitely not $50 but
but the point is that you want to give
them a surprise gift number one now once
we give that gift we want to pair
because we're going to we basically if
we've done a good job we will have
banked a little bit of reciprocity and
so then at that point and this is the
key part the person who gives the gift
is not the person who necessarily asks
for the review so then either the
manager of the restaurant the shift
manager somebody who is is representing
that person then says hey by the way if
you leave a a review we give this person
$50 so instead of incentivizing the
customer we're actually just saying this
person who did you good and gave you
this gift we're going to pay them if you
leave a review and so this allows the
customer to say you know what I kind of
want to pay back that server I want to
pay back that that plumber I want to pay
back that person who helped me out and
gave me the surprise gift by leaving a
review and the further way the person
who makes the ask is from the business
owner the more compelling I believe it
is provided is legal within your area
obviously laws apply for advertising
I'll tell you a story when L and I were
out in a different area traveling for
some speaking thing she had to go get
her hair done or something and so she
quickly was looking on Yelp to try and
find a good hair person and when she was
there she looked at the reviews
unsurprisingly and so there was one that
had a five star but had like 20 reviews
and another had like a 4.6 stars but had
a th000 reviews which one do you think
she went to the 4.6 stars with 1,000
reviews and so the question is that how
much was each of those incremental
reviews worth if the person who has the
most reviews ends up getting 90% of the
search volume well a hell of a lot and
so should we be willing to pay for
reviews not directly but indirectly and
the answer is yes this completely works
with physical products obviously you
could just include inside of the box
some sort of you know QR code or link
saying hey leave a review and give the
gift in exchange or you can give it
upfront I wish they would do some
research on this um I've tried both and
to be honest with you they both work so
Step One is surprise
gift step two is third
party ask the amount that you're willing
to pay for the gift and a bonus that
that you pay your team should be
proportional what a review is worth to
you and so if I have a new business and
I have almost no reviews each additional
review is worth significantly more than
once I have 10,000 reviews right but I
should still have that review system in
place to grease the groove and basically
continue the the the growth Loop along
its path so if you happen to live under
a rock and not believe that reviews are
a very valuable thing in business the
highest percentage of sales across any
Market come from word of mouth it's from
people telling other people about stuff
and people seeing other people use
products and being like hey what is that
or who do you use for right when you
bought a house you probably didn't
respond to an ad you probably did ask
your friends for what realtor they used
in that area or ask your neighbors right
and the higher the stakes of the
purchase the more referrals are
important the lower the ticket the less
it can be dependent but the conversion
on the first sale will still be
dependent on the proof that you
demonstrate and so I like to incorporate
proof in all aspects of my business and
here's an image of a Lobby where we put
proof floor to ceiling of people's
festar reviews because the advanced
tactic here is that once you do start
getting the these reviews coming in what
do you think you should do display them
everywhere you possibly can and if you
have an in-person business you have a
double effect compared to everybody else
because you can just literally have
someone walk into your lobby of all five
star reviews and it just anchors what
type of business you are which is that
you you overd deliver to customers and
you do a good job and so if I were a
waitress I might say hey by the way uh
here's some mints if it's really cheap
the type of food that I serve but more
realistically I'd probably be willing to
pay whatever the cost of a slice of
chocolate cake is or whatever the
dessert is and say hey it's on me you
guys were awesome thank you so much and
then when my manager comes through and
says by the way Jessica or i' would say
by the way our staff gets a $10 bonus if
anyone leaves a five stareview if you
mention their name um it would mean a
lot to us and it would obviously mean a
lot to Jessica so you know thanks so
much and so if Jessica does it and then
asks for the review it would still
probably work if they like Jessica but
it's so much cleaner to have the manager
come afterwards and then say hey if you
leave a review Jessica gets 10 bucks my
team asked me like well how like that's
going to take time for the manager and I
was like okay well think about the
hypothetical extreme here so let's say
that your restaurant turns 10 tables an
hour okay then for a manager to go and
deliver that line with take maybe 5
minutes to hit all of those 10 tables
and that's like if that if you've ever
had a manager come over it's usually
like 20 seconds it's not a very long
time but imagine the effect of that
which is that that restaurant every day
gets 10 five-star reviews because that
means that 10% let's say they turn you
know they're open for 10 hours they turn
10 tables an hour it's 100 tables that
they turned it's like okay one out of
those 10 leaves the review 10 festar
reviews a day at the end of the year
you've got almost 4,000 reviews like
worth it and if the team knows that
they're going to be measured on reviews
and you can obviously track what
percentage of them get five star reviews
you have another really high quality
metric for customer satisfaction is what
percentage of tables that this person
served actually did the review what
percentage of homes that this particular
Home Services guy does leaves a festar
review so it just gives you a second
metric to look at customer satisfaction
in the realest way possible that
generates revenue and if you do all of a
sudden find one waitress or one guy
who's going out in the field and he's
getting way more reviews than anyone
else just ask what they're doing
differently and then teach everybody
else and then step three is
make it easy and so if I'm the manager
I'm going to come by with a QR code on
my on a little little A-frame thing one
of these little ittybitty guys and I'll
leave it on the table right next to the
check like I want to make it easy for
them to take the next step that also
means that over time if I boost the hell
out of my Yelp then I'm like okay now
I'm going to boost my Google review so I
can shift my QR code now I'm going to
boost my my Facebook and meta reviews
right like each one of these I can shift
over time and it might just be you know
and then eventually it's just like hey
just follow us on Instagram or it could
be hey give us your your your your phone
number and we'll give you this thing
right and then they're on our our text
list and if you like that first tactic I
talk about it at length inside of my
customer referral chapter inside of the
leads book and so inside of here I'll
I'll give you the referral growth
equation so you know exactly how much
you can spend on referrals and how to
make them viral um and the tactics that
actually create the ways to get
customers to do this more often and
bring in higher quality people and so
the seven tactics are inside of this
book you can uh you can download they're
absolutely free this book is free if you
want a digital format uh on audio and uh
the Link's in the description so the
second tactic to reinforce that review
flywheel that then grows the business
and gets more customers is merch now
hold on what do you mean by that so I
realized that my first gym I was there
all the time and you know we got a
decent amount of Fest star reviews and
when I opened my second location it was
like starting from scratch again I no
reviews no one knew me in the area and I
was like man I got to jump start this
thing and so I had all these t-shirts
that I had bought and I probably had
overstocked the amount of t-shirts that
I was going to sell in the lobby but I
noticed that the shirts didn't sell that
much I mean like they hung up and I'd
move a couple every week but it wasn't a
huge amount of volume and so I was like
man these shirts would be so much more
valuable to me if two things happened
one is if people actually wore them two
is if they turned into something more
valuable than just wearing them which is
well what if I could accomplish both at
the same time by just giving them away
in exchange for three reviews and so I
made this post inside of the group that
I had for all my gym members and I said
hey I'm opening up my next location if
you guys have loved the service go get a
workout at the new location and if you
do I'll give you a free t-shirt and so
the t-shirts cost me five bucks but then
what they had to do to get the T-shirt
was they had to leave a review on Yelp
on Google and on Facebook and checkin
and so I had them do four things in
exchange for the shirt but guess what
happened overnight I had like 155 star
reviews for my new location and I had
all these people that were rocking my
merch so when they're out grocery
shopping when they see their friends
they're like oh what's that and then I
get some Word of Mouth from that and so
is a two bird one stone one organic Word
of Mouth other digital Word of Mouth
that I was able to do by simply saying
hey if you want some some merch here or
you want one of these jackets that has
this nice logo on it just leave a review
most people especially if you have a
recurring Revenue base will be more than
happy to leave a review for you so
obvious brick and mortar you can just
give merch straight up right so like if
you had a gym um or anything that people
are in a recurring membership with you
could do that now what if you're a uh
you know like the plumbing business well
the first tactic would probably work
better for you so if you're B2B merch
might not be as meaningful to your
customers as if you're B Toc because if
they are frequenting your business on a
regular basis they probably have some
brand Affinity they're okay wearing it
and they would do stuff in exchange to
get that kind of merch now the other two
tactics I'm going to share with you will
help you if you are in one of those B2B
uh situations and so here's how the
tactic
works there's my world's best T-shirt
there we go you pay five bucks for the
t-shirt and then that t-shirt then gets
you a Yelp
review it gets you a Google
review it gets you a meta review which
is wherever you're running your ads from
so this stuff is so important cuz what
we're thinking about here is how do
people actually find your business well
they're going to search on yel depending
on the industry you're in you're going
to be running Google PPC ads or they're
going to be searching on Google and
they're going to find it through SEO
you're running ads on meta and so we're
covering each of the the platforms the
surface area that someone is coming in
so even though we're asking for three
for every new customer they're only
going to see maybe one of these things
and then finally we get the actual Word
of Mouth from actually wearing the thing
in public and this is just organic and
so in each of these situations we're
actually covering a new type of
advertising only with one $5 give if
you're less comfortable with giving out
the like if you're like my Brand's not
that strong right now then you can have
just an inspirational quote or saying on
the shirt so when I did my shirts I
think I had like a beast mode engaged
shirt my customers were wearing that
rather than uh my logo but my logo was
on the back or the side you know so you
can put it on the sleeve or you can put
it on the back if you want to have like
some cool factor that goes with it so
what's the third tactic boom you give
them a big pile of money no not exactly
but instead we actually just offer a
discount and so the amount that you can
offer the discounts can be proportional
whatever your gross profit is and the
average ticket and so I was talking to a
restaurant owner not that long ago he
needed to get new reviews for a new
location and so the strategy we came up
with was really simple I said would you
give somebody a dollar off their meal
and he was a very budget Diner in terms
of the the the type of establishment he
was he was running very high volume and
I said would you give a dollar off so
it's about 5% of the average ticket of
somebody who's walking in the door and
he said yeah I would pay a dollar I was
like right because that means you'd pay
$5,000 for 5,000 review VI like that's a
good deal and so what we decided to do
is that when people came with the check
they would put the hey for f if you want
to save a dollar on each person each
person can leave a review and we put the
little QR code on top and then the
waitress when she delivered the check
also basically Drew attention to it and
said hey if you do that I'll go bring
your check back with the discount
included and so if you think about this
as as a meta concept the first two
examples I gave you were things where
you add something good you add some sort
of incentive the first one is you add
something but not in exchange for
anything based on reciprocity and then
the Goodwill goes to the person who did
the service the second one is where you
give a direct exchange with the customer
like do this for me and I'll give I'll
do this for you very quck Pro Crow very
straightforward this one with the
discount is about removing bad stuff
right and so bad stuff being the price
of whatever they had to pay right and so
the most effective way to do this in my
opinion is as the check or as the
invoice is being delivered and this is
where people mess this up is that they
will say hey if you leave forw will give
you 20% off your next one you will be
able to give significantly less off if
you just say it's available right now
and so latency is one of the strongest
multipliers of a persuasive tool risk
and delay actually work very similarly
in people's minds so the further out it
is the less powerful the thing that you
give you say hey I'll give you $100 in a
year if you leave a review most people
would rather have $2 off today so number
one is at point of sale so it's when you
present the price so once you present
the price and you get acceptance on the
price then you offer the discount
discount
presented you then get them to say yes
they want to do it if they do it so this
is now you verify that they actually did
the review so you have them show you
that they did the review then you
recalculate the overall price and then
you hand them the final check and then
both parties are better off so number
four
keys well the fourth tactic is a bonus
tactic for you but it's any kind of
unlockable now this works particularly
well with any kind of uh B2B service
business anything that's National or
digital uh rather than in person so the
first three that I gave are very IRL
driven so discounts you can use whenever
um but like giving a real inperson gift
or giving merch sometimes can be a
little bit uh harder online versus in
person so if you have online what you
can do is you can unlock either either
media which is hey we're going to give
you some sort of uh training that's
associated with this
or VIP trial so what does that mean and
this is why this is uh extra extra nasty
in a good way which is if you have
multiple levels of service your cost to
deliver that service is typically not
overwhelmingly high right when people do
these add-ons so like if you're an SEO
Agency for example maybe you'll you'll
rank another domain or you'll start you
you you'll spin up extra backlinks or
whatever whatever your core Services you
say hey by the way if you do this I will
unlock a trial of a higher level of
service for 20 you know a 30-day period
something like that the benefit of this
is that not only do you get the review
you also give the customer a trial a
taste of the higher-end version of the
service that you deliver and so this
becomes extra powerful because it starts
with Goodwill and you may just end up
converting these customers into more
valuable customers over time so you get
you literally get paid to get reviews
now if you have a media thing that you
want to unlock called it a training
called it an event called it something
like that you can do that as well in the
IRL version of this you can have call it
an annual event that people are invited
to and their ticket to get in is that
they left to review and you can do this
both virtually or in real life and so
anything that you can give away that is
remote would obviously work and I also
like having Trials of services or pieces
of a higher level to encourage people to
one taste it and then maybe just maybe
give us money for it later and so here's
the deal if you don't do this what's
going to happen is that you're going to
have a linear business you have to keep
flowing effort and money in and then
money comes out and you have to keep
doing this over and over again when you
stop doing this you stop getting this
but when you set up a system like this
where you have a loop where customers
get results results turn into reviews
and then those reviews get you more
customers the business over time becomes
self- sustaining and so every business
has to have this in place place if they
hope to separate themselves from the
investors or Founders who breathed life
in it to begin with you want the engine
to run without you you are lighter fluid
not the log because if you're the log
you'll eventually get burned out as you
get tons and tons of reviews in your
business you get more Customs from it
every once in a while you're going to
get a negative review and this video
shows you how to handle them